#Market-Basket-Project-on-E-Commerce

Problem Statement: Most customers do not post a review rating or any comment after purchasing a product which is a challenge for any E-commerce platform to perform If a company predicts whether a customer liked/disliked a product so that they can recommend more similar and related products as well as they can decide whether or not a product should be sold at their end. This is crucial for E-commerce-based company because they need to keep track of each product of each seller, so that none of products discourage their customers to come shop with them again. Moreover, if a specific product has very few ratings and that too negative, a company must not drop the product straight away, may be many customers who found the product to be useful haven't actually rated it. Some reasons could possibly be comparing your product review with those of your competitors beforehand, gaining lots of insight about the product and saving a lot of manual data pre-processin,maintain good customer relationship with company, lend gifts, offers and deals if the company feels the customer is going to break the relation. Objective of this case study is centered around predicting customer satisfaction with a product which can be deduced after predicting the product rating a user would rate after he makes a purchase.

You can get Dataset through this link: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/olistbr/brazilian-ecommerce
This is a Brazilian ecommerce public dataset of orders made at Olist Store. The dataset has information of 100k orders from 2016 to 2018 made at multiple marketplaces in Brazil. Its features allows viewing an order from multiple dimensions: from order status, price, payment and freight performance to customer location, product attributes and finally reviews written by customers. This dataset was generously provided by Olist, the largest department store in Brazilian marketplaces. Olist connects small businesses from all over Brazil to channels without hassle and with a single contract. Those merchants are able to sell their products through the Olist Store and ship them directly to the customers using Olist logistics partners. See more on website: www.olist.com

In this project, we analyzed a Brazilian e-commerce public dataset of orders made at Olist Store, the largest department store in Brazilian marketplaces. The dataset has orders from Oct 2016 to Nov 2018 made at multiple marketplaces in Brazil. Its features allows viewing an order from multiple dimensions: from order status, price, payment and freight performance to customer location, product attributes and finally reviews written by customers. There was also a geolocation dataset that includes Brazilian zip codes with latitude and longitude.This dataset gave us an insight into the dynamics of an e-commerce industry. We used multiple methods to explore the data since we have different kinds of data sources. We also used the classification models to predict customer ratings (Low, Medium & High) and On-time Delivery Binary Classification. We also performed market segmentation based on the geolocation dataset through using k-means clustering and identified the different customer bases or possible market penetration locations. We also performed NLP and Sentimental Analysis on Comments/Reviews of Customers and identified the major features affecting the customer satisfaction. We believe our recommendations will enable Olist Store’s Operational Improvement and ultimately enable higher profits for the organisation.
